= Bugs & Contributing Code

If you would like to change how this software works, report a bug, or request a feature, use
the github issue tracker[http://github.com/smtlaissezfaire/fixturereplacement/issues].

== Running the Specs/Tests for FixtureReplacement

You will need rspec (version 1.0.8 or later) to run the specs, as well as the sqlite3-ruby gem
(and sqlite3 installed):

  % gem install rspec sqlite3-ruby

cd into the fixture_replacement plugin directory:

  % cd vendor/plugins/fixture_replacement

Then run with <tt>rake</tt>

  % rake

There are also some tests for test/unit.  These mainly serve as regressions, but you are free
to run them as well.

== Test Coverage

specdocs[http://replacefixtures.rubyforge.org/specdoc.html], rcov[http://replacefixtures.rubyforge.org/rcov/index.html], flog[http://replacefixtures.rubyforge.org/flog.txt]

= Patches, Contributions:

Thanks to the following for making this software better:

- Greg Bluvshteyn (http://www.m001.net), for bugging me about the naming, and making the wonderful suggestion to use the plugin in the console.
- Simon Peter Nicholls
  - default_* methods can take a hash (applied in rev. 11)
- Wincent Colaiuta (http://wincent.com/) - Huge Thanks
  - patch for spelling error in comments (applied in revision 31)
  - patch for specs with sqlite3 (applied in revision 35)
  - patch to ignore attr_protected in mass assignment (applied in revision 57)
  - Most of this README Documentation (applied in revision 62)
  - patch: silencing sqlite3 in memory creation of table output (applied in revision 72)
  - doc patch: typo fix in readme
- Carl Porth
  - patch: classify should be camelize (applied in revision 74)
- LinoJ, JW, Matthew Bass, Andy Watts, Dave Spurr
  - bug reports
- Bryan Helmkamp: Feedback on back associating models.
- Pat Nakajima: Wonderful ideas from Fixjour.  Elimination of default_* methods in favor
  of new_* methods.  validation of new instances.
